---
layout: post
title: Preface
date: 2016-11-03
---
To the reader:

No one knows what 'The Exoskeleton' will look like, or how they will change us - this is my vision:

An exoskeleton is a wearable robot. They give us more control, and more choice, in life. If a computer augments our intellectual ability, an exoskeleton will augment our physicality. They will make us more efficient, more resilient and robust, and more equal as a people - <r8>‘different but equal’ will not persist.</r8> 

Society and social mobility eludes those who are immobile – paralyzed, elderly, luckless. The vulnerable and forgotten will have the choice of participation, with exoskeletons.

I don’t think the utility of exoskeletons is to make me run like Bolt, punch like Ali, or swim like Phelps, though they will give me that choice. Exoskeletons will protect who I already am: I can run a marathon every day of my life, knowing my joints won’t degrade, with exoskeletons.

And they will still let me choose who I want to become. I can condition my joints, muscles, and gait, every minute of the day, with my exoskeleton. Physical therapy begone, bygone.

Exoskeletons will give everyone the choice to live and move as we already do, while preserving and empowering our mobility. This is Modern Mobility: augmented reality isn’t something you’ll wear around your head, but under your clothes. The exoskeleton is the true wearable.

This archive begins with my first exoskeleton, Atlas, when I am 15. We conclude with Awstrol, it’s spiritual successor, when I am 18. Atlas aspired to give paralysis patients mobility. Awstrol is a modular framework that provides partial assistance to everyone, from zero, to 100%. It will treat those with physical disabilities within three years, and, a decade from now, assist everyone. <r8>For free.</r8> 

Prototypes have never been made – just extensive software models. The priority has always been to design something better, something that engages with the human form, and reimagines it. In a year or so, with a team of equally hungry and foolish college students, Awstrol will become physical. Until then, its public presence is confined to here (science fairs are a no-no – for patent issues.)

This archive isn’t about me, the creative process, or technical details. I have not included all my work in the interim, only those that seem significant, that show learning, or which I simply have affection. It is a mostly-objective representation of my work that, ironically, describes who I am. It describes how I work, my values, my preoccupations, and my goals. I have always hoped to make the tools that empower individuals to do more, and that is why I've named this Awstrol.

Awstrol honors Australopithecus, our oldest bipedal ancestor. It is a roly-poly type of name, human and delightful: Awe Stroll. It took over 300 interviews with potential users to grow from Atlas, into Awstrol, a name that reflects and honors their contribution to this vision: <r8>that an exoskeleton must be human, delightful, and possess emotional and artistic sensitivity. This is theirs.</r8>

Thank you,

r b m


<ul class="footer">
    <ul class="button">
        {% if page.previous %}
            {% assign previous = page.previous %}
            {% assign titlep = previous.title %}
        {%else%}
            {% assign previous = index.html%}
            {% assign titlep = "Home" %}
        {% endif %}
        <div class="button0"><a href="{{site.baseurl}}{{previous.url}}">&laquo; {{titlep}}</a></div>
        {% if page.next %}
            {% assign next = page.next %}
            {% assign titlen = next.title %}
        {%else%}
            {% assign next = index.html%}
            {% assign titlen = "Home" %}
        {% endif %}
        <div class="button0"><a href="{{site.baseurl}}{{next.url}}">{{titlen}} &raquo;</a></div>         
    </ul>
</ul>
