---
layout: post
title: Courage
date: 2016-11-05
---
The idea came at me like a thunderclap when I was 15. I was in my outrageously humid dorm room at chemistry camp. Minutes prior, a car had almost hit me while I was crossing the street. Before I could celebrate my survival, a thought struck me: I could’ve been paralyzed, even killed.

I began running in circles around my dorm room, thinking about all the ways I wouldn’t have been able to manage if I were paralyzed, when my heart’s thump-thump-thump swelled into a feverish crescendo of insight: there had to be a better way to treat paralysis. What about a robotic brace that someone would wear around his or her legs? I researched the idea and learned that such braces are called powered exoskeletons, but the few existing exoskeletons are bulky, expensive, and, ultimately, not much of an improvement over the wheelchair.

I was obsessed with my idea, awed by the complexities of human kinematics, and incensed that contemporary treatments are deemed ‘good enough.’ I’ve always believed that in situations like these, you have to chase startling ideas to change things. I challenged myself to design the most efficient and accessible exoskeleton I could; that’s how I wanted to chase after this thunderclap.

I’ve chased new ideas before that have grown into passions – mathematics, philosophy, mountaineering – but nothing has arrested my attention in the way that exoskeletons have. Designing exoskeletons is fiendishly complicated. One must overcome verbose FDA regulations and funky biomechanics, read mountains of research papers and textbooks, consult with engineers and potential users to keep designs from straying into the impossible, and spend years and thousands of hours relentlessly mastering software and honing intuition. I’ve done all this, and much more. 

I design, on average, ten exoskeletons per generation over the course of a week to six months (a generation consists of iterating several general ideas and discovering problems). I use Solidworks, an engineering CAD program, to design and simulate individual components and entire exoskeletons - a process both highly technical and artistic. Exoskeletons can be improved by orders of magnitude using software alone. Commercial exoskeletons weigh around 60 pounds. My first designs used hundreds of parts and weighed 30 pounds; my current designs are about 15 pounds, and use fewer than a hundred components. In three years, I have designed thirteen generations. That number may seem small, but that’s almost one big insight - one thunderclap - a week, for the past three years. 

But that’s not why designing exoskeletons stands apart from my other passions. 

I’ve been following a vision, not a path. Following this vision has taught me to treat everything I do with courage and to embrace mistakes. Each generation I designed was created because of flawed insights – misunderstandings – somewhere along the way. I’ve realized that a mistake can’t be bad – acknowledging mistakes is good. It lets us move on to the next idea, the next assumption, and ultimately, a ‘mistake’ less wrong than the last. This cycle is the essence of ‘good’ mistakes. Mistakes never frustrate me; I’m almost elated when I discover them. Dozens of my research notebooks could be summarized simply: ‘this is terrific – I was wrong but now I have a shot to be right again.’ Understanding a misunderstanding is almost the quintessential idea of what I'm doing. 

Courage, then, comes in repeating this process without compromising on the notion that there is always another way, and certainly, a better way. Courage tells me to keep seeking the undiscovered insight - the thunderclap waiting for me in an electric silence. Courage has come to flavor everything I do, and everything I am. 

I have, at times, been terrified, and in other moments, uncontrollably excited, when I realize that thunder is coming my way. But this is my way, so I go there, where the thunder of my mind rages, echoes, and inspires.
